Propose op:get and op:index (#161)
ocapn/ocapn: draft-specifications/CapTP Specification.md

resolution is already available, the resolver provided in `listen-desc` MUST be
fulfilled or broken.

## `op:get`

`op:get` requests the value for the named field of an eventually settled
[Struct](Model.md#Struct).  The get operation follows promise resolutions,
inheriting the rejection reason of any intermediate rejected promise.

> The operation rejects the answer if the ultimate fulfillment of the receiver

Reviewer: I think we should also specify that `op:get`s where the struct does not have the given `field-name` causes a rejection too.

> of a potentially large Struct.

### Sending
#### `receiver-pos`
This must be the `desc:answer` or a `desc:import-promise` value which
eventually leads to the Struct you wish to get the value from.
#### `field-name`
This must be a [String](Model.md#String) designating a field of the Struct
you wish to get the value from.
#### `new-answer-pos`
This should be a new unique answer position that the selected value should be
exported at.

### Receiving
When receiving the `op:get` message, export a promise at the
answer position specified by `new-answer-pos`.
The promise should eventually resolve to the value at the field specified by
`field-name`, in fields of the `receiver-pos` Struct.
If the `receiver-pos` promise breaks, or the `field-name` is absent on the
eventual receiver, the promise breaks.

## `op:index`

`op:index` requests the value at the given index of an eventually settled
[List](Model.md#List).
The index operation follows promise resolutions, inheriting the rejection
reason of any intermediate rejected promise.
The operation rejects the answer if the ultimate fulfillment of the receiver
is not a List.

The messages looks like:
```

> <op:index <receiver-pos>       ; <desc:answer | desc:import-promise>

Reviewer: Same as `op:get` I have a preference for this to be `receiver-desc`

>           <index>              ; Integer

Reviewer: This is referred to as `selected-value-pos` elsewhere, personally I prefer `index`, but either way we should be consistent.

Author: I’m in favor of naming the operator `op:index` over `op:pos` and ironing out in the other direction, if you agree. If you do not agree, I would feel obligated to name the operator `op:pos`.

Author: Editorially, I’m fine with making a small change here that is consistent with the rest of the material like `op:pos receiver-desc pos>` then separately `s/pos/index` throughout.

Author: Please disregard my deleted comments for which you have undoubtedly received notifications. I will name this index throughout the proposed text.

          <new-anser-pos>      ; Positive Integer
```

> The `op:index` operation allows a sender to pipeline messages to a
> [Target](Model.md#Target) that is deeply embedded in one or more enveloping
> lists.
> For cases where the receiver of an index operation is an answer slot with no
> listeners, sending `op:index` obviates the transmission of uninteresting
> values of a potentially large List.

### Sending
#### `receiver-pos`
This must be the `desc:answer` or a`desc:import-promise` value which eventually
leads to the List you wish to get the value from.
#### `selected-value-pos`
This must be a zero-indexed integer which specifies which value should be
picked out of the List.
#### `new-answer-pos`
This must be a new unique answer position that the selected value should be
exported at.

### Receiving
When the `op:index` message is received, a promise should be exported at the
answer position specified by `new-answer-pos`.
The promise should eventually resolve to the value at the index specified by
`selected-value-pos`, in values provided in the List eventually fulfilled at
`receiver-pos`.

> If the `promise-pos` promise breaks, or the `selected-value-pos` is out of

Reviewer: I assume promise-pos is referring to receiver-pos?

the bounds of the receiver List, the promise should break.

## `op:untag`

`op:untag` requests the value for an eventually settled
[Tagged](Model.md#Tagged) value.
The operation rejects the answer if the ultimate fulfillment of the receiver is
not a Tagged value.

The messages looks like:
```
<op:untag <receiver-pos>       ; <desc:answer | desc:import-promise>
          <tag>                ; A String

>           <new-anser-pos>      ; Positive Integer

Reviewer 2: nit: typo, should be `<new-answer-pos>`.

Reviewer: This applies to the other operations too.

> listeners, sending `op:index` obviates the transmission of uninteresting
> values of a potentially large List.

### Sending
#### `receiver-pos`
This must be the `desc:answer` or a`desc:import-promise` value which eventually
leads to the List you wish to get the value from.
#### `selected-value-pos`
This must be a zero-indexed integer which specifies which value should be
picked out of the List.
#### `new-answer-pos`
This must be a new unique answer position that the selected value should be
exported at.

### Receiving
When the `op:index` message is received, a promise should be exported at the
answer position specified by `new-answer-pos`.
The promise should eventually resolve to the value at the index specified by
`selected-value-pos`, in values provided in the List eventually fulfilled at
`receiver-pos`.
If the `promise-pos` promise breaks, or the `selected-value-pos` is out of
the bounds of the receiver List, the promise should break.

## `op:untag`

`op:untag` requests the value for an eventually settled
[Tagged](Model.md#Tagged) tagged value.
The operation rejects the answer if the ultimate fulfillment of the receiver is
not a Tagged value.

The messages looks like:
```

> <op:untag <receiver-pos>       ; <desc:answer | desc:import-promise>

Author: I’ve posted a change that makes the tag an argument of this message and causes the receiver to assert that the received tag matches the receiver’s tag.

> <op:untag <receiver-pos>       ; <desc:answer | desc:import-promise>

Reviewer: And again here, I'd prefer `receiver-desc`

resolution is already available, the resolver provided in `listen-desc` MUST be
fulfilled or broken.

## `op:get`

`op:get` requests the value for the named field of an eventually settled
[Struct](Model.md#Struct).  The get operation follows promise resolutions,
inheriting the rejection reason of any intermediate rejected promise.
The operation rejects the answer if the ultimate fulfillment of the receiver
is not a struct.

The messages looks like:
```

> <op:get <receiver-pos>       ; <desc:answer | desc:import-promise>

Author: Editorial note: I chose `receiver-pos` here, deviating from the precedent in `op:pick`, because `promise-pos` was very specific to extracting from multi-value fulfillments. `struct-pos` would be consistent with that convention.

Reviewer: nit: receiver-pos sounds like it takes a positive integer, I think receiver-desc would be a better name, WDYT?

Reviewer: Second nit, I'll put it here but it applies to all arguments in the operators introduced, I think arguments shouldn't have `<>` around them (i.e. `<op:get receiver-pos field-name new-answer-pos>`)

        <field-name>         ; String
        <new-anser-pos>      ; Positive Integer
```

> The `op:get` operation allows a sender to pipeline messages to a
> [Target](Model.md#Target) that is deeply embedded in one or more enveloping
> structs.
> For cases where the receiver of a get operation is an answer slot with no
> listeners, sending `op:get` obviates the transmission of uninteresting fields
> of a potentially large Struct.

### Sending
#### `receiver-pos`

> This must be the `desc:answer` or a`desc:import-promise` value which

Author: I deviated here from the “should” verb in `op:pick`, so if this is deemed more appropriate generally, I can follow-up with another editorial change to just make that language consistent.

> This must be the `desc:answer` or a`desc:import-promise` value which

Reviewer 2: teeny tiny nit: Add a space after "or a"

eventually leads to the Struct you wish to get the value from.
#### `field-name`
This must be a [String](Model.md#String) designating a field of the Struct
you wish to get the value from.
#### `new-answer-pos`
This should be a new unique answer position that the selected value should be
exported at.

### Receiving

> When the `op:get` message is received, a promise should be exported at the

Author: Passive voice
```suggestion
When receiving the `op:get` message, export a promise at the
```

answer position specified by `new-answer-pos`.
The promise should eventually resolve to the value at the field specified by
`field-name`, in fields of the `receiver-pos` Struct.
If the `receiver-pos` promise breaks, or the `field-name` is absent on the
eventual receiver, the promise breaks.

## `op:index`

> `op:index` requests the value at the given idnex of an eventually settled

Author: ```suggestion
`op:index` requests the value at the given index of an eventually settled
```
